=head1 NAME

dunstify - a program to send desktop notifications

=head1 SYNOPSIS

dunstify [OPTION...] SUMMARY [BODY]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Dunstify is a notify-send alternative that can be used to
send desktop notifications from the command line.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-?, --help>

Show help options.

=item B<-a, --app-name=NAME>

Set the app name of the notification.
Accepted legacy alias: B<--appname>.

=item B<-u, --urgency=URG>

Set the urgency level (low, normal, critical) of the notification.

=item B<-h, --hint=HINT>

Specifies hints to pass. Valid types are BOOLEAN, INT, DOUBLE, STRING, BYTE and VARIANT.
Accepted legacy alias: B<--hints>.

=item B<-A, --action=ACTION>

Specifies the actions to display to the user.

=item B<-e, --transient>

Mark the notification as transient.

=item B<-t, --expire-time=TIMEOUT>

The time in milliseconds until the notification expires.
Accepted legacy alias: B<--timeout>.

=item B<-i, --icon=ICON>

Specifies an icon to display with the notification.

=item B<-I, --raw-icon=PATH>

Path to the icon to be sent as raw image data.
Accepted legacy alias: B<--raw_icon>.

=item B<-c, --category=TYPE>

The category of this notification.

=item B<-p, --print-id>

Print id, which can be used to update/replace this notification.
Accepted legacy alias: B<--printid>.

=item B<-r, --replace-id=ID>

Set the id of this notification to The ID of the notification to replace.
Accepted legacy alias: B<--replace>.

=item B<-C, --close=ID>

Close the notification with the specified ID.

=item B<-w, --wait>

Block until notification is closed and print close reason.
Accepted legacy alias: B<-b, --block>.

=item B<--stack-tag=TAG>

Set the dunst stack tag property of the notification to TAG.
A tagged notification will replace an earlier notification with the same tag.

The following commands are equivalent:

    dunstify -h string:x-dunst-stack-tag:TAG "hello"

    dunstify --stack-tag TAG "hello"

=item B<--capabilities>

Print the server capabilities and exit.

=item B<--serverinfo>

Print server information and exit.

=item B<-v, --version>

Print dunstify version information.
Not present on Dunst versions prior to v1.13.

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2011-2014 Sascha Kruse

Copyright 2014-2026 Dunst contributors

Dunst is released under the BSD 3-Clause License, see LICENSE for more information.

If you feel that copyrights are violated, please send an email to the maintainers.

=head1 SEE ALSO

notify-send(1), dunst(5), dunstctl(1), dunst(1)
