=head1 NAME

dunstctl - Command line control utility for dunst, a customizable and lightweight notification-daemon

=head1 SYNOPSIS

dunstctl COMMAND [PARAMETER]

=head1 COMMANDS

=over 4

=item B<action> notification_position

Performs the default action or, if not available, opens the context menu of the
notification at the given position (starting count at the top, first
notification being 0). 

=item B<close>

Close the topmost notification currently being displayed.

=item B<close-all>

Close all notifications currently being displayed

=item B<context>

Open the context menu, presenting all available actions and urls for the
currently open notifications.

=item B<count> [displayed/history/waiting]

Returns the number of displayed, shown and waiting notifications. If no argument
is provided, everything will be printed.

=item B<history-pop> [ID]

Redisplay the notification that was most recently closed. This can be called
multiple times to show older notifications, up to the history limit configured
in dunst. You can optionally pass an ID to history-pop, in which case the
notification with the given ID will be shown.

=item B<is-paused>

Check if dunst is currently running or paused. If dunst is paused notifications
will be kept but not shown until it is unpaused.

=item B<set-paused> true/false/toggle

Set the paused status of dunst. If false, dunst is running normally, if true,
dunst is paused. See the is-paused command and the dunst man page for more
information.

=item B<debug>

Tries to contact dunst and checks for common faults between dunstctl and dunst.
Useful if something isn't working

=item B<help>

Show all available commands with a brief description

=back

